1. Using PEM Certificates
 
These are the files you need for PEM certificate.
Four files are needed to this kind of certificate on server and client.
 
Creation commands and descriptions for the files can be found below:
 
 
File: ca.crt (Dummy)
Description: The Root Certificate (Dummy)
Location: CA Server or any other trusted server
Command: # openssl req -nodes -new -x509 -days 1825 -keyout ca.key -out ca.crt
 
 
File: server.key, server.csr
Description: Generate the private key and certificate request for the server
Location: Server
Command: # openssl req -nodes -new -keyout server.key -out server.csr
 
 
File: server.crt
Description: The certificate for the server signed with the Root Certificate
Location: Server
Command: # openssl ca -cert ca.crt -keyfile ca.key -out server.crt -in server.csr
 
 
File: client.key
Description: Generate the private key and certificate request for the client
Location: Client
Command: # openssl req -nodes -new -keyout client.key -out client.csr
 
 
File: client.crt
Description: The certificate for the client signed with the Root Certificate
Location: Client
Command: # openssl ca -cert ca.crt -keyfile ca.key -out client.crt -in client.csr
 
 
File: dh.pem
Description: The Diffie-Hellman file for secure SSL/TLS nagotiation, same on the server and all clients
Location: Client and Server
Command: # openssl dhparam -out dh.pem 1024
               (Change 1024 to the size of the key you want)
 
 
File: shared.key
Description: The shared key file, same on the server and the clients
Location: Client and Server
Command: # openvpn --genkey --secret shared.key
 
 
 
2. Using PKCS12 Certificates
 
 
Public Key Cryptography Standards 12
 
A PKCS12 Certificate can be created using the files generated for the PEM certificates.
 
 
Command:
 
# openssl pkcs12 -export -in server.crt -inkey private/server.key -certificate ca.crt -name friendly_name -out server.p12
 
Where friendly_name can be, for example, the CNAME.
 
You'll be prompted for a password. Remember to keep it, so you can export information from the certificate.
 
The above command create a PKCS12 certificate for the server. You can do the same for the client by replacing the server.crt and server.key with the client.crt and client.key files.

